Bug or Enhancement (#172)
openjdk/guide: src/guide/jbs-jdk-bug-system.md

  * Search [JBS](https://bugs.openjdk.org/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20JDK) for things like the name of the failing test, assert messages, the name of the source code file where a crash occurred etc.
  * If you find a similar issue that was closed as [Cannot Reproduce]{.jbs-value} then it may be appropriate to re-open that one - if you don't have direct access to JBS you can file a bug using the [Bug Report Tool](https://bugreport.java.com/) requesting that it be reopened.
* Set a relevant [Component/s]{.jbs-field} for the issue.

>   * If you are unsure what component to choose, see [Code Owners](#code-owners) for guidance.

Reviewer: Does the mark-down processor create the link automatically?

Author: Yes

Reviewer: It's cleaner this way.

| Issue Type | Covers |
|:-|:----------|

> | [Bug]{.jbs-value} | A [Bug]{.jbs-value} should relate to functional correctness - a deviation from behavior that can be tied back to a specification. See [Is it a Bug or an Enhancement?] |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Bug]{.jbs-value} | A [Bug]{.jbs-value} relates to functional correctness - a deviation from behavior that can be tied back to a specification. See [Is it a Bug or an Enhancement?] |
```
More concise?

A [Bug]{.jbs-value} or [Enhancement]{.jbs-value} should only be used if the work is expected to result in a change in a code repository. A [Bug]{.jbs-value} or [Enhancement]{.jbs-value} with resolution [Fixed]{.jbs-value} is required to have a corresponding changeset in one of the OpenJDK repositories.
:::

#### Is it a Bug or an Enhancement?

> To decide whether an issue is a bug or an enhancement is not always straight forward. The basic distinction is not complex; If the detected behavior breaks the specification, it's a bug. If the intended behavior changes the specification, it's an enhancement. To make the right choice in reality, it might help to consider a few things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decide whether an issue is a bug or an enhancement is not always straight forward. The basic distinction is not complex. If the detected behavior breaks the specification, it's a bug. If the intended behavior changes the specification, it's an enhancement. To make the right choice in reality, it might help to consider a few things:
```

The capital letter of “If” implies the semicolon should be full stop… that ends the sentence.

Alternatively, you may use a colon and make the two sentences that start with “if” a list item.

> To decide whether an issue is a bug or an enhancement is not always straight forward. The basic distinction is not complex. If the detected behavior breaks the specification, it's a bug. If the intended behavior changes the specification, it's an enhancement. To make the right choice in reality, it might help to consider a few things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deciding whether an issue is a bug or an enhancement is not always straightforward. The basic distinction is not complex. If the detected behavior breaks the specification, it's a bug. If the intended behavior changes the specification, it's an enhancement. To make the right choice in reality, it might help to consider a few things:
```

“Deciding” fits more naturally in my opinion.

> To decide whether an issue is a bug or an enhancement is not always straight forward. The basic distinction is not complex. If the detected behavior breaks the specification, it's a bug. If the intended behavior changes the specification, it's an enhancement. To make the right choice in reality, it might help to consider a few things:

Reviewer 2: Is there a better definition of "specification"? In the Java SE API specification realm, many specification are often updated to match the longstanding reference implementation behavior. I wonder if "specification" can refer to "reference implementation behavior" too or if it strictly refers to Java SE specifications.

Reviewer 3: "specification" is being used in the most general way. If you can point to something that says the code should do X when it does Y then it is a bug. Whether you change the code or change the specification does not change that IMO. Lets not get too bogged down on something that is fairly subjective, but easily changed.

- Is there a failing test?

> :   Provided you didn't just write the test and are doing test-driven development, a failing test is usually a sign of a bug. Something that used to work is now failing. The bug could be either in the JDK or in the test, but something is broken if a test is failing, and that should be classified as a bug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Provided you didn't just write the test and aren't doing test-driven development, a failing test is usually a sign of a bug. Something that used to work is now failing. The bug could be either in the JDK or in the test, but something is broken if a test is failing, and that should be classified as a bug.
```

Reviewer: Perhaps, I'd emphasise “a bug” in the end of the sentence: “…that should be classified as *a bug.”*

- Is the existing code working as it was designed?

> :   If the code is doing what it was designed to do, and the design itself didn't have a bug, adapting code to changing circumstances should be considered enhancements. It's not a bug that we're not supporting a new version of an OS that didn't exist when the code was written. This includes cases where something that wasn't desired or required before has now become so. If something was deliberately left out for some acceptable reason, it would be an enhancement to add it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   If the code is doing what it was designed to do, and the design itself didn't have a bug, adapting the code to changing circumstances should be considered as an enhancement. It's not a bug that we're not supporting a new version of an OS that didn't exist when the code was written. This includes cases where something that wasn't desired or required before has now become so. If something was deliberately left out, it would be an enhancement to add it later.
```
To make the sentence flow more similar to that for the bug.

> :   If the code is doing what it was designed to do, and the design itself didn't have a bug, adapting code to changing circumstances should be considered enhancements. It's not a bug that we're not supporting a new version of an OS that didn't exist when the code was written. This includes cases where something that wasn't desired or required before has now become so. If something was deliberately left out for some acceptable reason, it would be an enhancement to add it later.

Reviewer 3: Generally speaking code cleanups, performance improvements, increased debuggability (including new logging), are all enhancements to "code that was doing what it was designed to do" - but it may be worth mentioning them explicitly.

- Corner cases and bugs in rarely taken code paths

> :   A bug is a bug, it doesn't matter if the code where the bug sits is extremely unlikely to be executed, or if the calculated result of the code is unlikely to be used. The likelihood of failure doesn't change the type of the issue. It may however affect if we chose to fix it or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   A bug is a bug, it doesn't matter if the code where the bug sits is extremely unlikely to be executed, or if the calculated result of the code is unlikely to be used. The likelihood of failure doesn't change the type of the issue. It may, however, affect if we chose to fix it or not.
```

- Performance issues

> :   Performance issues rarely break any specification, but in general these can be divided into two categories: Performance regressions (bugs) and Performance enhancements. If something has worse performance than it used to have, that is a regression. While if you are looking to improve performance of something that has not recently regressed, it's an enhancement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Performance issues rarely break any specification, but in general these can be divided into two categories: Performance regressions (bugs) and Performance enhancements. If something has worse performance than it used to have, it's a regression. While if you are looking to improve performance of something that has not recently regressed, it's an enhancement.
```

> :   Performance issues rarely breaks any specification, but in general these can be divided into two categories: Performance regressions (bugs) and Performance enhancements. If something has worse performance than it used to have, that is a regression. While if you are looking to improve performance of something that has not recently regressed, it's an enhancement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Performance issues rarely break any specification, but in general these can be divided into two categories: Performance regressions (bugs) and Performance enhancements. If something has worse performance than it used to have, that is a regression. While if you are looking to improve performance of something that has not recently regressed, it's an enhancement.
```
